This lesson we're going to be looking at the canvas tag.
So this is new.
H tim L5 and all you need to do is set up canvas tags.
We need to give it an idea and I've already set up for this idea of canvas one I've already set up some
styling so that we can actually see it.
And then just close that off so you don't actually have to put in the contents and here you can put
something in there.
And if your browser doesn't actually support canvas then whatever message is in there is actually going
to get output.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to access that canvas element and we do this the same
way that we've done this before where we set up a variable and then we do document get element by ID.
And this is accessing our element using the dorms or grabbing canvas one and we're going to put that
into the object canvas.
So the next to that we need to do with canvas is we need to create a drawing object so set up another
variable and this one can be whatever you want to call it.
Lot of times that's it's getting the drawing ability so getting the context.
So I'm going to just call it CTX and this is where we access canvas and we do get context.
So this is actually going to give us the ability to interact with our canvas element within our aged
himself.
So this is get context and the context and the drawing is going to be done within 2d.
So that's all we need in order to hook up our canvas.
So the next thing that we can do is we can actually start drawing into the canvas.
And if I go out here and if I refreshed the page we've got a default size for canvas.
So this is what we've got showing up here and now we're all ready to drawn here.
We can also adjust the size of it so that we with canvas we do have height and width for canvas so we
can set those and this is actually different than the canvas style height and width.
So this is the amount of pixel space that we have to draw with.
So I'm just going to set one thousand by six hundred and we'll go back and we'll refresh it.
So that essentially gives us a bigger drawing space.
I actually didn't want to make it that wide.
So let me make it less wide.
So 400 by 600 because I'm on the split screen here.
So there is a default size and we saw the default size there.
And now we're setting up a size for it.
So 400 by 600.
And again this is different than the style.
The style is well you could set and that would change the dimensions of the canvas.
So this is the canvas width and height so not to be mistaken with the style width and height.
So now the next thing that we can do is we can draw within our canvas.
So we've got the dimensions of our canvas area.
And what I'm going to do now is to in canvas has its own specific methods just like a lot of what we
saw earlier with in the dorm.
We can also be really specific.
And these are specific methods that are related to the canvas object.
And this is all done by javascript's so we can incorporate javascript within these methods.
So there's one called Phil WREC.
So we're just accessing the CTX objects.
This is the draw object and this gives us access to all of these methods to draw.
So we needed some parameters that we needed to pass in here.
So we need a starting point where we're drawing we needed x and y coordinate.
So this is related to the candidates with and the canvas height.
The next thing that we need to set is we need to set
a width and height.
So if we want this one to be 100 picks and we want 100 picks high then this essentially build so our
rectangle.
And if we go out here and if we refresh it we see that we've got a blank a default.
So the default color is black and we've got a rectangle staring at pixels.
So going by the x axis so we're going to 10 and we're going 30 down.
So that's our starting point and we're going 100 and 100 down.
So we've got the width of 100 and the height of 100 and it's easy is that to draw something within Kandace.
So what I want you to do now is pause the video go out into your browser and create a canvas element
and then link to it using Document get element by ID.
So grab that as an object and then add in the GET context to the giving that new object the ability
to utilize the HMO five canvas methods and then go ahead and draw a rectangle somewhere within your
canvas spacing.
So go out and try that within your own editor.
And I'm going to show even more that e can do with canvas.
So if you had an opportunity to try that out and when it comes to drawing there is quite a lot we can
do.
We can also set colors so we can do CTX and we can set a specific color style to that.
So this is Phil style
so what Phil style will do is this will give me the ability to set a fill color into it and so fill
style is just a color value so we can use hexadecimal we can use our G-B we can also use the named values.
So just going to make it a red color.
So now the way that the script is going to read is that we're going to grab that canvas object into
the canvas variable then we're going to create a brand new variable CTX we're going to use canvas and
we're going to attach get context which gives us the ability to draw.
We're setting a canvas height and width.
So this was optional but it's always a good idea to implement this so that you can set the height and
width that you're going to be working with so that you know that what your parameters are and then next
we're doing Phil style so we're setting a color.
And then afterwards we're doing fill rectangle and we're basically drawing out our rectangle So let's
go out and refresh and we see that refreshing it gives us a nice red square.
So let's add one more thing in here because we do want to use some javascript and then have to add the
ability to do a random color.
So now every time we refresh and we're actually going to get a random color to the square and this is
how we can start using javascript and implementing it within our HTML5 canvas element.
And there's a lot of parameters that we can set when it comes to utilizing canvas.
So we've got another one that we can set align with.
And as you can see we've got line cap dash offset the join line to line with.
So we've got a lot of options that are available to us.
So this is the pixel width of the line.
So if I go back here and if I refreshed we don't actually see anything because we're not using us any
lines yet.
All we've done is built a rectangle.
So let's add in a line.
So again calling that CTX object and this one is for stroke.
So I've got a number of options for stroke.
So it's two stroke style.
And this is where again we have an option for a random color.
Let's go out and do that.
We'll do a nice random color there.
So make it nice random colored and notice that we're still not actually outputting anything.
And lastly in order to output some content we're going to do a stroke rectangle so this one was a fill
rectangle so that automatically filled it.
So next let's do a stroke rectangle and this is going to utilize the stroke attributes where we've got
the same parameters that we have up here.
But we can use stroke.
So what I'm going to do is I'll just move this one down by let's move it down by 150 and we'll keep
the parameters the same.
So we see that now we've got a line with 10.
We've got another rectangle that we've drawn here and this one has the same dimensions so it's 100 by
100 but this one's starting at pixel spot 150.
It's not what I want you to do.
Pause the video and build its rectangle a rectangle and just use stroke for this rectangle so use the
stroke rectangle.
You can set a width so we see when we get rid of the stroke style that we do have a gray area around
there so I can refresh it and we can see that this one the color is still changing because we've got
that Phil style but we're not setting any with and we're not setting any style into it.
So these are some of the options that you can do when you build your own rectangle.
So in the next lesson we're going to look at even more that we can do with our canvas and I'm going
to show you some more cool things that you can do of canvas.
And then we're going to bring in some javascript in order to do even more with canvas.
So all of that is coming up in the next set of lessons.